                             XDB Version 1.2.0
                             
                             
                             
WHAT IS IT?
-----------

XDB is an xbase (i.e. dBase, FoxPro, etc.) compatible C++ class library 
originally based on the xBase library (version 1.8.1) by Gary Kunkel and 
others (see the AUTHORS file).

XDB was forked off from the xBase library because the original authors
are busy working on other things and we wanted to make our changes and
bugfixes available to others who might be interested.

XDB is useful for accessing data in legacy dBase 3 and 4 database files as
well as a general light-weight database engine.  It includes support for
DBF (dBase version 3 and 4) data files, NDX and NTX indexes, and DBT 
(dBase version 3 and 4).  It supports file and record locking under *nix
OS's (we hope to fix the locking support under Win32 soon).


DIRECTORY LAYOUT
----------------

    /bin        contains various utility programs
    /examples   contains various test programs
    /html       contains the original xBase documentation in html format
    /tv         turbo vision interface stuff
    /xdb        XDB source and header files


BUILDING THE LIBRARY
--------------------

XDB uses autoconf and libtool to manage the build process.

To configure the library for your specific system, run the "configure"
shell script as follows:

    ./configure
    
The configure script accepts the following options in addition to the
normal default options:

  --enable-debug 	  creates debugging code [default=no]
  --enable-shared         build shared libraries [default=yes]
  --enable-static         build static libraries [default=no]
  --with-gnu-ld           assume the C compiler uses GNU ld [default=no]
  --without-index-ndx     do not compile .ndx index support 
  --without-index-ntx     do not compile .ntx index support 
  --without-memo-fields   do not compile memo fields support 
  --without-expressions   do not compile expressions support 
  --without-ui-html       do not compile HTML support 
  --without-xbase-locking turn off XBase file locking 
  --without-realdelete     turn off XBase record deletion 
  --without-xbase-debug   turn off XBase specific debug 
  --with-exceptions       turn on exceptions 
  --with-castellano       turn on spanish date logic 

Once configured, execute make as follows to build the library:

    make
    
Once compiled (and assuming no errors occurred), use make to install the 
library, header files, and utilities as follows:

    make install
    
The default install directory is /usr/local.  


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

The documentation at this point consists of the original xBase documentation
(in the html directory).  It is still very useful as little has changed 
from the original library except bugfixes and a few enhancements.
However, instead of including "xbase/xxx.h", you should include "xdb/xxx.h"
and should link against the xdb library instead of the xbase library (i.e.
-lxdb).

We are working on incorporating comments into the source to allow
generation of reference documentation using the Doxygen document generator.
A small amount has been done already, but we hope to complete this effort
before the next release.


CONTACT
-------

Please email comments, bug reports, and patches to Derry Bryson 
(derry@techass.com).


Maintenance of this library is supported by Technology Associates, Inc. 
(www.techass.com).
