  LocalSQL

  Copyright (C) 2001 Trolltech AS

  Contact:
	 Dave Berton (db@trolltech.com)
	 Jasmin Blanchette (jasmin@trolltech.com)

  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
  License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
  version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  Lesser General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

LocalSQL
--------

LocalSQL provides a library and command line tool for direct
invokation and processing of SQL statements on local databases.  A
subset of SQL92 is implemented, notably:

INSERT
UPDATE
DELETE
SELECT
CREATE TABLE
CREATE INDEX
DROP TABLE

Sub-selects are not currently supported.  See README.SQL for more
information on exactly what is and is not supported.

LocalSQL requires Qt 3.0-snapshot or higher:

	ftp.trolltech.com/qt/snapshots

It also requires XBase version 1.2.0 or higher:

	http://sourceforge.net/projects/xdb

A copy of XBase an XBase CVS snapshot is included in this
distribution.

Installation
------------

1. Ensure that Qt is installed and compiled.

2. Ensure that XBase is installed and compiled.  To use the XBase
which is included in this distribution, do the following:
	tar xzf xbase-snapshot
	cd xbase-snapshot
	./configure
	make
	make install

3. From the top level of the LocalSQL, do:
	./configure
	make
	make install (note: hard coded to /usr/local at the moment)

Usage
-----

LocalSQL can be used as a database driver for Qt (compiled with SQL
support).  Just drop the library into $QTDIR/plugins/sqldrivers and Qt
will automatically load it.  See the Qt documentation for details.

LocalSQL also has a command line tool called 'lsql' for manipulating
data.  For more information, type:

	lsql --help


Comments and suggestions welcome.

db








