- aclock
  This example displays an analog clock widget.

- action
  Just like the application example but uses QAction to build
  the menu and the toolbar.

- addressbook
  This examples shows how to write a very simple, but complete application
  using a very simple address book as example.

- application
  This example program looks like a complete modern application. It has
  a menu bar, it has a tool bar, it has a status bar and works like a
  simple text editor.

- biff (Unix only)
  Biff is a simple graphical program to indicate whether there is new mail;
  it looks exactly like xbiff but is much shorter.

- buttongroups
  This examples shows different types of Groupboxes (Buttongroups, etc.)
  and lots of different kinds of Buttons (Checkboxes, Radiobuttons,
  Pushbuttons, etc.)

- canvas
  Demonstrates many of QCanvas's facilities, but by no means all of
  them!

- checklists
  Lists with checkbox and radio button items (like those often used by
  setup programs).

- cursor
  This example shows how to set a mouse cursor for a widget. Shows
  both Qt's cursors and a custom cursor.

- customlayout
  This examples demonstrates how to write a customized layout (geometry)
  manager, like a Card-Layout, Border-Layout and Flow-Layout.

- dclock
  This example displays a digital LCD clock and can switch between time
  and date.

- demo
  Run this to see almost all Qt's widgets in action, including drag
  and drop, 2D graphics, etc.

- desktop
  The desktop demo contains three routines, each of which draws something
  on the desktop. It does some nice stuff with QPainter, and also
  demonstrates how one can treat the desktop as a widget like any other.

- dirview
  This example program demonstrates how to use a ListView and ListView
  Items to build a multi-column hierarchical, memory- and CPU-efficient
  directory browser. It also demonstrates how to use Drag'n'Drop in a
  Listview.

- dragdrop
  Demonstrates image and text drag and drop.

- drawdemo
  Draws a color wheel, text and shapes. This example demonstrates
  several drawing functions and printer output. You can easily add you
  own drawing functions. See "ourDrawFunctions".

- drawlines
  This example shows very simple mouse-based user interaction and
  painting without any world transform matrix or other advanced
  features. Run the program, click the button, move the mouse,
  release the button, and watch the lines get drawn.

- fileiconview
  This example implements a simple and not full functional file manager using
  a widget derived from QIconView to display the current directory and the
  widget of the DirectoryView example to display the directory tree.

- forever
  See how fast Qt can draw colored rectangles. This example
  continuously draws rectangles in a window and has another widget
  that counts the number of rectangles that are drawn per second.
  WARNING: this program has a strobe effect.

- gridview
  A grid view with 100x100 cells.

- hello
  Hello world with colored animated wavy text.

- helpviewer
  The HelpViewer example implements a simple HTML help browser using
  Qt's richtext capabilities.

- i18n
  This example shows how to internationalize applications. Start it with
  	# i18n de
  to get a german version and with
  	# i18n en
  to get the english version.

- iconview
  This example implements a flexible icon view which can store
  lots of icon items. It supports Drag'n'Drop, different selection modes,
  view modes, rubberband selection, etc.

- layout
  This example shows simple and intermediate use of Qt's layout
  classes, QGridLaout, QBoxLayout etc.

- life
  An implementation of the life game. Very UNIX-ish GUI design ;-)

- lineedits
  The Lineedits example shows how to work with single Lineedit widgets, and
  how to use different Echo Modes and Validators.

- listbox
  Shows QListBox options.

- listboxcombo
  This example program demonstrates how to use Listboxes (with single
  selection and multi selection) and Comboboxes (editable and non-editable).

- listviews
  This examples shows how to work with Listviews (hierarchical and
  multi-columns). It also shows how to subclass Listview Items for
  special reasons. It looks and works like the mainwindow of a mail client.

- mdi
  Similar to the application and action examples, but this time using
  MDI (Multiple Document Interface).

- menu
  This example demonstrates simple use of menus (a menu bar and
  pull-down menus). Qt also supports popup menus, but this example
  doesn't contain any (but the popup example does).

- movies
  The Movies example displays animated GIF files using the QMovie and
  QLabel classes.

- picture
  This example shows how to make, store to file, and read a picture as
  a set of drawing commands.

- popup
  This examples shows how to implement widgets which should
  popup.

- progress
  This example displays either a simple (text-only) or a
  custom-labelled (user-supplied widget) progress dialog. It also
  demonstrates simple use of menus.

- progressbar
  Shows a QProgressBar.

- qdir
  Shows how to use and customize Qt's file dialog. See
  	qdir --help
  for details

- qfd
  This example program displays all characters of a font.

- qmag
  This is a simple magnifier-type program. It shows how one can do
  some quite low-level operations portably using Qt.

  Run it, click in the magnifier window, then click where you want to
  magnify or drag out a rectangle. Two combo boxes let you select
  amplification and refresh frequency, a text label tells you the color
  of the pixel the cursor is on, and a button lets you save the
  magnified area as a .bmp file.

- qwerty
  Small text editor to test different character encodings.

- rangecontrols
  This examples shows the different types of Rangecontrols which
  are supported by Qt. These are Dials, Spinboxes and Sliders.

- richtext
  In this examples it's demonstrated how to display rich text, using
  Qt, in a widget. In this example some sayings taken from the famous
  Unix "Fortune" are displayed nicely formatted.

- rot13
  In this example you can enter a text in one Mulitilineedit widget
  and it is displayed in the edit widget at the right transformed using
  the rot13 algorithm.

- scribble
  This example implements the famous scribble example. You can draw
  around in the canvas with different pens and save the result as picture.

- scrollview
  This example shows how to use Qt's Scrollview. This is a widget
  which can contain a very large contents and is very optimized for
  that. Also child widgets can be inserted.

- showimg
  This example reads and displays an image in any supported image
  format (GIF, BMP, PPM, XMP etc.)

- splitter
  This example shows how to use Splitters. Splitters can contain
  multiple child items and using the Splitter the user can decide
  herself/himself, how much space each child should get.

- tabdialog
  This example shows how to use a dialog with multiple tabs (pages).
  When starting it you have to specify a filename as first argument.
  The dialog shows information about that file seperated into some
  tabs.

- table
  The table program displays a spreadsheet-like table. It is an example
  of how to inherit the QScrollView widget for presentations of 2D data
  arrays.
  Left-click the mouse to set a current cell. Press the arrow buttons to
  move the current mark around. Type something to edit a cell's contents.

- tetrix
  This is the Qt implementation of the well known game Tetris.

- textedit
  A simple text editor.

- themes
  This examples demonstrates how to draw widgets in different styles
  (themes). Example themes looking like wood and metal are
  implemented. You can switch between the different styles at runtime
  using the pulldown menu.

- tictac
  This is an implementation of the Tic-tac-toe game.

  We didn't put much effort in making a clever algorithm so it's not a
  challenge to play against the computer. Instead, study the source code
  to see how you can make reusable components such as the TicTacGameBoard
  widget.

- tooltip
  This example widget demonstrates how to use tool tips for static and
  dynamic regions within a widget.
  It displays two blue and one red rectangle. The blue ones move every
  time you click on them, the red one is static. There are dynamic
  tool tips on the blue rectangles and a static tool tip on the red one.

- validator
  This example shows how to write and use your own validator.

- widgets
  Shows the Qt widgets (see the demo example too).

- wizard
  This example shows the usage of Qt's wizard class. Wizards are
  useful for taking users step-by-step through complex or infrequently
  used actions.

- xform
  This example lets the user rotate, shear and scale text and graphics
  arbitrarily.

